# PP HW 5 Report Template
> - Please include both brief and detailed answers.
> - The report should be based on the UCX code.
> - Describe the code using the 'permalink' from [GitHub repository](https://github.com/NTHU-LSALAB/UCX-lsalab).

## 1. Overview
> In conjunction with the UCP architecture mentioned in the lecture, please read [ucp_hello_world.c](https://github.com/NTHU-LSALAB/UCX-lsalab/blob/pp2024/examples/ucp_hello_world.c)
1. Identify how UCP Objects (`ucp_context`, `ucp_worker`, `ucp_ep`) interact through the API, including at least the following functions:
    - `ucp_init`: 函數有三個參數， `params` 負責指定 UCP 初始化的參數 ， `config`包含環境變數設定由 `ucp_config_read()` 提供，而最重要的 `context_p`拿回 context handler。
          在create的過程中會做一些檢查，譬如API的compatibility、network interfaces。再根據config去決定哪些事context可使用的protocal。
    - `ucp_config_read`: UCP config 默認初始化。
    - `ucp_worker_create`: 創建好context的下一步就是創造worker，同樣三個參數，要引入剛剛的`ucp_init`產生的`context`。`thread_mode` 指定如何處理多線程訪問，可選的模式包括`UCS_THREAD_MODE_SINGLE`：單線程模式和
          `UCS_THREAD_MODE_MULTI`允許多個執行緒訪問 Worker。`worker_p`返回指向新創建的 ucp_worker 的指針。
    - `ucp_worker_query`: 其中的`*attr`存儲查詢結果的的指標，初始化此結構並設置 field_mask，指定希望獲取的屬性。
    - `ucp_worker_get_address`: 獲取worker的address，用於創建與遠端通信的端點
    - `ucp_ep_create`: Endpoint 代表一個本地 Worker 和遠端 Worker 之間的通訊連接，創造的endpoint只能夠被一個worker給操作，但一個worker可以操作一個或多個endpoints，address的部分必須要先藉由外部方式取得（例如 Socket）
          並且是non-blocking。
    - `XXX_destroy`: 清理並釋放與相關的所有資源
    
      
2. UCX abstracts communication into three layers as below. Please provide a diagram illustrating the architectural design of UCX.
    - `ucp_context`
    - `ucp_worker`
    - `ucp_ep`
> Please provide detailed example information in the diagram corresponding to the execution of the command `srun -N 2 ./send_recv.out` or `mpiucx --host HostA:1,HostB:1 ./send_recv.out`

3. Based on the description in HW5, where do you think the following information is loaded/created?
    - `UCX_TLS`
    - TLS selected by UCX

## 2. Implementation
> Please complete the implementation according to the [spec](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fmm0TFpLxbDP7neNcbLDn8nhZpqUBi9NGRzWjgxZaPE/edit?usp=sharing)
> Describe how you implemented the two special features of HW5.
1. Which files did you modify, and where did you choose to print Line 1 and Line 2?
2. How do the functions in these files call each other? Why is it designed this way?
3. Observe when Line 1 and 2 are printed during the call of which UCP API?
4. Does it match your expectations for questions **1-3**? Why?
5. In implementing the features, we see variables like lanes, tl_rsc, tl_name, tl_device, bitmap, iface, etc., used to store different Layer's protocol information. Please explain what information each of them stores.

## 3. Optimize System 
1. Below are the current configurations for OpenMPI and UCX in the system. Based on your learning, what methods can you use to optimize single-node performance by setting UCX environment variables?

```
-------------------------------------------------------------------
/opt/modulefiles/openmpi/ucx-pp:

module-whatis   {OpenMPI 4.1.6}
conflict        mpi
module          load ucx/1.15.0
prepend-path    PATH /opt/openmpi-4.1.6/bin
prepend-path    LD_LIBRARY_PATH /opt/openmpi-4.1.6/lib
prepend-path    MANPATH /opt/openmpi-4.1.6/share/man
prepend-path    CPATH /opt/openmpi-4.1.6/include
setenv          UCX_TLS ud_verbs
setenv          UCX_NET_DEVICES ibp3s0:1
-------------------------------------------------------------------
```

1. Please use the following commands to test different data sizes for latency and bandwidth, to verify your ideas:
```bash
module load openmpi/ucx-pp
mpiucx -n 2 $HOME/UCX-lsalab/test/mpi/osu/pt2pt/osu_latency
mpiucx -n 2 $HOME/UCX-lsalab/test/mpi/osu/pt2pt/osu_bw
```
2. Please create a chart to illustrate the impact of different parameter options on various data sizes and the effects of different testsuite.
3. Based on the chart, explain the impact of different TLS implementations and hypothesize the possible reasons (references required).


### Advanced Challenge: Multi-Node Testing

This challenge involves testing the performance across multiple nodes. You can accomplish this by utilizing the sbatch script provided below. The task includes creating tables and providing explanations based on your findings. Notably, Writing a comprehensive report on this exercise can earn you up to 5 additional points.

- For information on sbatch, refer to the documentation at [Slurm's sbatch page](https://slurm.schedmd.com/sbatch.html).
- To conduct multi-node testing, use the following command:
```
cd ~/UCX-lsalab/test/
sbatch run.batch
```


## 4. Experience & Conclusion
1. What have you learned from this homework?
2. How long did you spend on the assignment?
3. Feedback (optional)
